dm: update DM quick start using TiUP Playground (#19925)
pingcap/docs: dm/quick-start-with-dm.md

Reviewer: Preview: https://pingcap-docsite-preview-git-preview-pi-789171-oreoxmts-projects.vercel.app/tidb/dev/quick-start-with-dm

---
title: TiDB Data Migration Quick Start
summary: Learn how to quickly set up a data migration environment using TiUP playground.
aliases: ['/docs/tidb-data-migration/dev/get-started/']
---

# Quick Start Guide for TiDB Data Migration

> TiDB Data Migration (DM) is a powerful tool that replicates databases from MySQL-compatible databases to TiDB. This guide will walk you through setting up a local TiDB DM environment for development and testing using TiUP Playground.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TiDB Data Migration (DM)](/dm/dm-overview.md) is a powerful tool that replicates data from MySQL-compatible databases to TiDB. This guide shows you how to set up a local TiDB DM environment for development and testing using [TiUP Playground](/tiup/tiup-playground.md).
```

> **Note:**
>

> > For production deployments, please refer to [Deploy a DM Cluster Using TiUP](/dm/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For production deployments, refer to [Deploy a DM Cluster Using TiUP](/dm/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup.md).
```
https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#please
Don't use please in the normal course of explaining how to use a product, even if you're explaining a difficult task.

Use please only when you're asking for permission or forgiveness.

> ## Step 1: Set Up the Test Environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Set up the test environment
```

https://developers.google.com/style/capitalization#capitalization-in-titles-and-headings

Please use sentence case for headings

TiUP is a command-line tool for managing TiDB components. Its Playground feature lets you quickly launch a temporary local environment with a TiDB database and TiDB DM for development and testing.

1. Install TiUP:

    ```shell
    curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://tiup-mirrors.pingcap.com/install.sh | sh
    ```

2. Start TiUP Playground with a TiDB target database and DM components:

    ```shell

>     tiup playground --dm-master 1 --dm-worker 1 --tiflash 0 --without-monitor

Reviewer: The `--dm-master` and `--dm-worker` flags require TiUP v1.16.1 or later.

To help users with older TiUP versions understand the requirement and provide clear upgrade instructions, please add a note in the document.

Author: I’ve addressed this in [this commit](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/19925/commits/0c69e8a87585d5269c9e6a596f1ad3dab4fe0063) adding a note to Step 1.1.

    ```

3. Verify the environment by checking in the output if TiDB and DM are running: 

    ```text
    TiDB Playground Cluster is started, enjoy!

    Connect TiDB:    mysql --host 127.0.0.1 --port 4000 -u root
    Connect DM:      tiup dmctl --master-addr 127.0.0.1:8261
    TiDB Dashboard:  http://127.0.0.1:2379/dashboard
    ```

4. Keep `tiup playground` running in the current terminal and open a new terminal for the next steps. This playground environment provides the running processes for the target TiDB database and the replication engine (DM-master and DM-worker). It will handle the data flow from MySQL (source) → DM (replication engine) → TiDB (target).

> ## Step 2: Prepare a Source Database (Optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Prepare a source database (optional)
```

<SimpleTab>

<div label="Docker">

You can use Docker to quickly deploy a test MySQL 8.0 instance by following this procedure.

1. Run a MySQL 8 docker container with:

    ```shell
    docker run --name mysql80 \
        -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=MyPassw0rd! \
        -p 3306:3306 \
        -d mysql:8.0
    ```

2. Connect to MySQL with:

    ```shell
    docker exec -it mysql80 mysql -uroot -pMyPassw0rd!
    ```

3. Create a dedicated user for DM with the necessary privileges:

    ```sql
    CREATE USER 'tidb-dm'@'%'
        IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password
        BY 'MyPassw0rd!';

    GRANT PROCESS, BACKUP_ADMIN, RELOAD, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT, SELECT ON *.* TO 'tidb-dm'@'%';
    ```

4. Create sample data:

    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE hello;
    USE hello;
    
    CREATE TABLE hello_tidb (
        id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
        name VARCHAR(50)
    );
    
    INSERT INTO hello_tidb (name) VALUES ('Hello World');
    
    SELECT * FROM hello_tidb;
    ```

</div>

> </SimpleTab>
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    
    SELECT * FROM hello_tidb;
    ```

</div>

<div label="Ubuntu">

On Ubuntu, you can install MySQL from the official Ubuntu repository:

1. Update your package list:

    ```shell
    sudo apt-get update
    ```

2. Install MySQL:

    ```shell
    sudo apt-get install -y mysql-server
    ```

3. Check if `mysql` service is running, and start the service if necessary:

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl status mysql
    sudo systemctl start mysql
    ```

4. Connect to MySQL as `root` via socket authentication:

    ```shell
    sudo mysql
    ```

5. For DM testing purposes, create a dedicated user and grant privileges:

    ```sql
    CREATE USER 'tidb-dm'@'%'
        IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password
        BY 'MyPassw0rd!';

    GRANT PROCESS, BACKUP_ADMIN, RELOAD, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT, SELECT ON *.* TO 'tidb-dm'@'%';    
    ```

6. Create sample data:

    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE hello;
    USE hello;
    
    CREATE TABLE hello_tidb (
        id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
        name VARCHAR(50)
    );
    
    INSERT INTO hello_tidb (name) VALUES ('Hello World');
    
    SELECT * FROM hello_tidb;
    ```

</div>

</SimpleTab>

> ## Step 3: Configure a TiDB DM Source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Configure a TiDB DM source
```

With the source MySQL database ready and accessible, the next step is to configure TiDB DM to connect to it. This involves creating a source configuration file with the connection details and applying the configurations using the `dmctl` tool.

1. Create a source configuration file `mysql-01.yaml`:

    > **Note:** Here we assume the `tidb-dm` user with replication privileges has been created in the source database as shown in Step 2.

    ```yaml
    source-id: "mysql-01"
    from:
      host: "127.0.0.1"
      user: "tidb-dm"
      password: "MyPassw0rd!"    # In production environments, it is recommended to use a password encrypted with dmctl.
      port: 3306
    ```

2. Create a DM data source:

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr 127.0.0.1:8261 operate-source create mysql-01.yaml
    ```

> ## Step 4: Create a TiDB DM Task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Create a TiDB DM task
```

After configuring the source database, you can create a migration task in TiDB DM that will reference the source MySQL instances and define the target TiDB connection details. 

1. Create a DM task configuration file `tiup-playground-task.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    # Task 
    name: tiup-playground-task
    task-mode: "all"              # Execute all phases - full data migration and incremental sync. 
    
    # Source (MySQL)
    mysql-instances:
      - source-id: "mysql-01" 

    ## Target (TiDB)
    target-database:
      host: "127.0.0.1"
      port: 4000
      user: "root"
      password: ""                # If the password is not empty, it is recommended to use a password encrypted with dmctl.
    ```

2. Start the task using the configuration file:

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr 127.0.0.1:8261 start-task tiup-playground-task.yaml
    ```

> ## Step 5: Verify the Data Replication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 5: Verify the data replication
```

Once the migration task is running, you can verify that the data replication is working as expected using the `dmctl` tool and by connecting to the target database to confirm that the data has been successfully replicated from the source MySQL database to the target TiDB cluster.

1. Verify TiDB DM tasks status with:

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr 127.0.0.1:8261 query-status
    ```

2. Connect to the TiDB target database to verify the replicated data:

    ```shell
    mysql -uroot -h127.0.0.1 -P4000 --prompt 'tidb> '
    ```

3. If you created the sample data in step 2, you will see the `hello_tidb` table replicated from the MySQL source database to the TiDB target database:

    ```sql
    SELECT * FROM hello.hello_tidb;
    ```

> ## Step 6: Clean Up (Optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 6: Clean up (optional)
```

    brew uninstall mysql@8.0
    ```

    > **Note:** If you want to remove all MySQL data files, remove the MySQL data directory (commonly `/opt/homebrew/var/mysql`).

    </div>

    <div label="CentOS">

    If you installed MySQL 8.0 via the MySQL Yum repository, stop the service and uninstall with:

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl stop mysqld
    sudo yum remove -y mysql-community-server
    ```

    > **Note:** If you want to remove all MySQL data files, remove the MySQL data directory (commonly `/var/lib/mysql`).

    </div>

    <div label="Ubuntu">

    If you installed MySQL from the official Ubuntu repository, stop the service and uninstall with:

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl stop mysql
    sudo apt-get remove --purge -y mysql-server
    sudo apt-get autoremove -y
    ```

    > **Note:** If you want to remove all MySQL data files, remove the MySQL data directory (commonly `/var/lib/mysql`).

    </div>

    </SimpleTab>

3. Remove the TiDB DM configuration files if they are no longer needed:

    ```shell
    rm mysql-01.yaml tiup-playground-task.yaml
    ```

4. If you no longer need TiUP, you can uninstall it:

    ```shell
    rm -rf ~/.tiup
    ```

> ## What's Next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What's next
```

---
title: TiDB Data Migration Quick Start
summary: Learn how to quickly set up a data migration environment using TiUP playground.
aliases: ['/docs/tidb-data-migration/dev/get-started/']
---

> # Quick Start Guide for TiDB Data Migration

Reviewer 2: To keep wording consistent with [Quick Start with TiDB Self-Managed](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/quick-start-with-tidb).
```suggestion
# Quick Start with TiDB Data Migration
```

[TiDB Data Migration (DM)](/dm/dm-overview.md) is a powerful tool that replicates data from MySQL-compatible databases to TiDB. This guide shows you how to set up a local TiDB DM environment for development and testing using [TiUP Playground](/tiup/tiup-playground.md).

> **Note:**
>
> For production deployments, refer to [Deploy a DM Cluster Using TiUP](/dm/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup.md).

## Step 1: Set up the test environment

TiUP is a command-line tool for managing TiDB components. Its Playground feature lets you quickly launch a temporary local environment with a TiDB database and TiDB DM for development and testing.

1. Install TiUP:

    ```shell
    curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://tiup-mirrors.pingcap.com/install.sh | sh
    ```

>     > **Note:** If you have an existing installation of TiUP, ensure it is updated to v1.16.1 or later to use the `--dm-master` and `--dm-worker` flags. You can check your current version with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note:**
    >
    > If TiUP is already installed, ensure it is updated to v1.16.1 or later to use the `--dm-master` and `--dm-worker` flags. To check your current TiUP version, run:
```

    >
    > ```shell
    > tiup --version
    > ```
    >
    > To upgrade TiUP to the latest version, run:
    >
    > ```shell
    > tiup update --self
    > ```

2. Start TiUP Playground with a TiDB target database and DM components:

    ```shell
    tiup playground --dm-master 1 --dm-worker 1 --tiflash 0 --without-monitor
    ```

3. Verify the environment by checking in the output if TiDB and DM are running: 

    ```text
    TiDB Playground Cluster is started, enjoy!

    Connect TiDB:    mysql --host 127.0.0.1 --port 4000 -u root
    Connect DM:      tiup dmctl --master-addr 127.0.0.1:8261
    TiDB Dashboard:  http://127.0.0.1:2379/dashboard
    ```

> 4. Keep `tiup playground` running in the current terminal and open a new terminal for the next steps. This playground environment provides the running processes for the target TiDB database and the replication engine (DM-master and DM-worker). It will handle the data flow from MySQL (source) → DM (replication engine) → TiDB (target).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Keep `tiup playground` running in the current terminal and open a new terminal for the next steps.

    This playground environment provides the running processes for the target TiDB database and the replication engine (DM-master and DM-worker). It will handle the data flow from MySQL (source) through DM (replication engine) to TiDB (target).
```

## Step 2: Prepare a source database (optional)

> You can use one or multiple MySQL instances as a source database. If you do not have a MySQL-compatible instance already, you can create one for testing purposes follow these steps. If you already have a source MySQL database, skip to the Step 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use one or more MySQL instances as a source database. If you already have a MySQL-compatible instance, skip to [Step 3](#step-3-configure-a-tidb-dm-source). Otherwise, follow these steps to create one for testing.
```

<SimpleTab>

<div label="Docker">

You can use Docker to quickly deploy a test MySQL 8.0 instance by following this procedure.

> 1. Run a MySQL 8 docker container with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run a MySQL 8 Docker container:
```

    ```shell
    docker run --name mysql80 \
        -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=MyPassw0rd! \
        -p 3306:3306 \
        -d mysql:8.0
    ```

> 2. Connect to MySQL with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Connect to MySQL:
```

    ```shell
    docker exec -it mysql80 mysql -uroot -pMyPassw0rd!
    ```

3. Create a dedicated user for DM with the necessary privileges:

    ```sql
    CREATE USER 'tidb-dm'@'%'
        IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password
        BY 'MyPassw0rd!';

    GRANT PROCESS, BACKUP_ADMIN, RELOAD, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT, SELECT ON *.* TO 'tidb-dm'@'%';
    ```

4. Create sample data:

    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE hello;
    USE hello;
    
    CREATE TABLE hello_tidb (
        id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
        name VARCHAR(50)
    );
    
    INSERT INTO hello_tidb (name) VALUES ('Hello World');
    
    SELECT * FROM hello_tidb;
    ```

</div>

<div label="macOS">

> If you are on macOS, you can quickly install and start MySQL 8.0 locally via [Homebrew](https://brew.sh):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On macOS, you can quickly install and start MySQL 8.0 locally using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh).
```

1. Update Homebrew and install MySQL 8.0:

    ```shell
    brew update
    brew install mysql@8.0
    ```

2. Make MySQL commands accessible in the system path:

    ```shell
    brew link mysql@8.0 --force
    ```

3. Start the MySQL service:

    ```shell
    brew services start mysql@8.0
    ```

> 4. Connect to MySQL as `root`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Connect to MySQL as the `root` user:
```

    ```shell
    mysql -uroot
    ```

5. For DM testing purposes, create a dedicated user and grant privileges:

    ```sql
    CREATE USER 'tidb-dm'@'%'
        IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password
        BY 'MyPassw0rd!';

    GRANT PROCESS, BACKUP_ADMIN, RELOAD, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT, SELECT ON *.* TO 'tidb-dm'@'%';
    ```

6. Create sample data:

    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE hello;
    USE hello;
    
    CREATE TABLE hello_tidb (
        id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
        name VARCHAR(50)
    );
    
    INSERT INTO hello_tidb (name) VALUES ('Hello World');
    
    SELECT * FROM hello_tidb;
    ```

</div>

<div label="CentOS">

> On Enterprise Linux distros like CentOS, install MySQL 8.0 from the MySQL Yum repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Enterprise Linux distributions like CentOS, you can install MySQL 8.0 from the MySQL Yum repository.
```

> 1. Download and install the MySQL Yum repository package from [MySQL Yum repo download page](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/repo/yum). For Linux versions different than 9, you must replace the `el9` (Enterprise Linux version 9) in the URL below while keeping `mysql80` for MySQL version 8.0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download and install the MySQL Yum repository package from [MySQL Yum repository download page](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/repo/yum). For Linux versions other than 9, you must replace `el9` (Enterprise Linux version 9) in the following URL while keeping `mysql80` for MySQL version 8.0:
```

    ```shell
    sudo yum install -y https://dev.mysql.com/get/mysql80-community-release-el9-1.noarch.rpm
    ```

2. Install MySQL:

    ```shell
    sudo yum install -y mysql-community-server --nogpgcheck
    ```

3. Start MySQL:

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl start mysqld
    ```

4. Find the temporary root password in the MySQL log:

    ```shell
    sudo grep 'temporary password' /var/log/mysqld.log
    ```

> 5. Connect to MySQL as `root` with the temporary password:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Connect to MySQL as the `root` user with the temporary password:
```

    ```shell
    mysql -uroot -p
    ```

6. Reset MySQL `root` password: 

    ```sql
    ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost'
        IDENTIFIED BY 'MyPassw0rd!';    
    ```

7. For DM testing purposes, create a dedicated user and grant privileges:

    ```sql
    CREATE USER 'tidb-dm'@'%'
        IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password
        BY 'MyPassw0rd!';

    GRANT PROCESS, BACKUP_ADMIN, RELOAD, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT, SELECT ON *.* TO 'tidb-dm'@'%';
    ```

8. Create sample data:

    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE hello;
    USE hello;
    
    CREATE TABLE hello_tidb (
        id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
        name VARCHAR(50)
    );
    
    INSERT INTO hello_tidb (name) VALUES ('Hello World');
    
    SELECT * FROM hello_tidb;
    ```

</div>

<div label="Ubuntu">

> On Ubuntu, you can install MySQL from the official Ubuntu repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Ubuntu, you can install MySQL from the official Ubuntu repository.
```

1. Update your package list:

    ```shell
    sudo apt-get update
    ```

2. Install MySQL:

    ```shell
    sudo apt-get install -y mysql-server
    ```

3. Check if `mysql` service is running, and start the service if necessary:

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl status mysql
    sudo systemctl start mysql
    ```

> 4. Connect to MySQL as `root` via socket authentication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Connect to MySQL as the `root` user using socket authentication:
```

    ```shell
    sudo mysql
    ```

5. For DM testing purposes, create a dedicated user and grant privileges:

    ```sql
    CREATE USER 'tidb-dm'@'%'
        IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password
        BY 'MyPassw0rd!';

    GRANT PROCESS, BACKUP_ADMIN, RELOAD, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT, SELECT ON *.* TO 'tidb-dm'@'%';    
    ```

6. Create sample data:

    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE hello;
    USE hello;
    
    CREATE TABLE hello_tidb (
        id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
        name VARCHAR(50)
    );
    
    INSERT INTO hello_tidb (name) VALUES ('Hello World');
    
    SELECT * FROM hello_tidb;
    ```

</div>

</SimpleTab>

## Step 3: Configure a TiDB DM source

> With the source MySQL database ready and accessible, the next step is to configure TiDB DM to connect to it. This involves creating a source configuration file with the connection details and applying the configurations using the `dmctl` tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After preparing the source MySQL database, configure TiDB DM to connect to it. To do this, create a source configuration file with the connection details and apply the configuration using the `dmctl` tool.
```

1. Create a source configuration file `mysql-01.yaml`:

>     > **Note:** Here we assume the `tidb-dm` user with replication privileges has been created in the source database as shown in Step 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note:**
    >
    > This step assumes you have already created the `tidb-dm` user with replication privileges in the source database, as described in [Step 2](#step-2-prepare-a-source-database-optional).
```

    ```yaml
    source-id: "mysql-01"
    from:
      host: "127.0.0.1"
      user: "tidb-dm"
      password: "MyPassw0rd!"    # In production environments, it is recommended to use a password encrypted with dmctl.
      port: 3306
    ```

2. Create a DM data source:

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr 127.0.0.1:8261 operate-source create mysql-01.yaml
    ```

## Step 4: Create a TiDB DM task

> After configuring the source database, you can create a migration task in TiDB DM that will reference the source MySQL instances and define the target TiDB connection details. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After configuring the source database, you can create a migration task in TiDB DM. This task references the source MySQL instance and defines the connection details for the target TiDB database.
```

1. Create a DM task configuration file `tiup-playground-task.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    # Task 
    name: tiup-playground-task
    task-mode: "all"              # Execute all phases - full data migration and incremental sync. 
    
    # Source (MySQL)
    mysql-instances:
      - source-id: "mysql-01" 

    ## Target (TiDB)
    target-database:
      host: "127.0.0.1"
      port: 4000
      user: "root"
      password: ""                # If the password is not empty, it is recommended to use a password encrypted with dmctl.
    ```

2. Start the task using the configuration file:

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr 127.0.0.1:8261 start-task tiup-playground-task.yaml
    ```

## Step 5: Verify the data replication

> Once the migration task is running, you can verify that the data replication is working as expected using the `dmctl` tool and by connecting to the target database to confirm that the data has been successfully replicated from the source MySQL database to the target TiDB cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After starting the migration task, verify that data replication is working as expected. Use the `dmctl` tool to check the task status and connect to the target TiDB database to confirm that the data has been successfully replicated from the source MySQL database.
```

> 1. Verify TiDB DM tasks status with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check the status of the TiDB DM task:
```

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr 127.0.0.1:8261 query-status
    ```

> 2. Connect to the TiDB target database to verify the replicated data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Connect to the TiDB target database:
```

    ```shell
    mysql -uroot -h127.0.0.1 -P4000 --prompt 'tidb> '
    ```

> 3. If you created the sample data in step 2, you will see the `hello_tidb` table replicated from the MySQL source database to the TiDB target database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Verify the replicated data. If you created the sample data in [step 2](#step-2-prepare-a-source-database-optional), you will see the `hello_tidb` table replicated from the MySQL source database to the TiDB target database:
```

    ```sql
    SELECT * FROM hello.hello_tidb;
    ```

## Step 6: Clean up (optional)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

After completing your testing, you can clean up the environment by stopping the TiUP Playground, removing the source MySQL instance (if created for testing), and deleting unnecessary files.

```

> 1. In the terminal where the TiUP Playground is running, press `Ctrl + C` to terminate the process. This will stop all TiDB and DM components and delete the target environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Stop the TiUP Playground:

    In the terminal where the TiUP Playground is running, press <kbd>Control+C</kbd> to terminate the process. This stops all TiDB and DM components and deletes the target environment.

```

> 2. If you created a source MySQL instance for testing in Step 2, stop and remove.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Stop and remove the source MySQL instance:

    If you created a source MySQL instance for testing in [Step 2](#step-2-prepare-a-source-database-optional), stop and remove it using the following steps.
```

    <SimpleTab>

    <div label="Docker">

    To stop and remove the Docker container:

    ```shell
    docker stop mysql80
    docker rm mysql80
    ```

    </div>

    <div label="macOS">

>     If you installed MySQL 8.0 via Homebrew solely for testing, stop the service and uninstall with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you installed MySQL 8.0 using Homebrew solely for testing, stop the service and uninstall it:
```

    ```shell
    brew services stop mysql@8.0
    brew uninstall mysql@8.0
    ```

>     > **Note:** If you want to remove all MySQL data files, remove the MySQL data directory (commonly `/opt/homebrew/var/mysql`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note:**
    >
    > To remove all MySQL data files, delete the MySQL data directory (commonly located at `/opt/homebrew/var/mysql`).
```

    </div>

    <div label="CentOS">

>     If you installed MySQL 8.0 via the MySQL Yum repository, stop the service and uninstall with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you installed MySQL 8.0 using Homebrew solely for testing, stop the service and uninstall it:
```

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl stop mysqld
    sudo yum remove -y mysql-community-server
    ```

    > **Note:** If you want to remove all MySQL data files, remove the MySQL data directory (commonly `/var/lib/mysql`).

    </div>

    <div label="Ubuntu">

>     If you installed MySQL from the official Ubuntu repository, stop the service and uninstall with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you installed MySQL from the official Ubuntu repository, stop the service and uninstall it:
```

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl stop mysql
    sudo apt-get remove --purge -y mysql-server
    sudo apt-get autoremove -y
    ```

>     > **Note:** If you want to remove all MySQL data files, remove the MySQL data directory (commonly `/var/lib/mysql`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **Note:**
    >
    > To remove all MySQL data files, delete the MySQL data directory (commonly located at `/var/lib/mysql`).
```

    > ```shell
    > tiup update --self
    > ```

2. Start TiUP Playground with a TiDB target database and DM components:

    ```shell
    tiup playground --dm-master 1 --dm-worker 1 --tiflash 0 --without-monitor
    ```

3. Verify the environment by checking in the output whether TiDB and DM are running:

    ```text
    TiDB Playground Cluster is started, enjoy!

    Connect TiDB:    mysql --host 127.0.0.1 --port 4000 -u root
    Connect DM:      tiup dmctl --master-addr 127.0.0.1:8261
    TiDB Dashboard:  http://127.0.0.1:2379/dashboard
    ```

4. Keep `tiup playground` running in the current terminal and open a new terminal for the following steps.

    This playground environment provides the running processes for the target TiDB database and the replication engine (DM-master and DM-worker). It will handle the data flow: MySQL (source) → DM (replication engine) → TiDB (target).

## Step 2: Prepare a source database (optional)

You can use one or multiple MySQL instances as a source database. If you do not have a MySQL-compatible instance already, you can create one for testing purposes follow these steps. If you already have a source MySQL database, skip to the Step 3.

> <SimpleTab>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<SimpleTab groupId="os">
```
Adding `groupId="os"` to the SimpleTab component ensures proper tab group synchronization. This parameter links related tabs together, allowing them to switch in unison when the operating system selection changes.

> <div label="Docker">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div label="Docker" value="docker">
```

You can use Docker to quickly deploy a test MySQL 8.0 instance.

> 1. Run a MySQL 8.0 docker container with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run a MySQL 8.0 Docker container:
```

    ```shell
    docker run --name mysql80 \
        -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=MyPassw0rd! \
        -p 3306:3306 \
        -d mysql:8.0
    ```

2. Connect to MySQL with:

    ```shell
    docker exec -it mysql80 mysql -uroot -pMyPassw0rd!
    ```

3. Create a dedicated user for DM with necessary privileges:

    ```sql
    CREATE USER 'tidb-dm'@'%'
        IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password
        BY 'MyPassw0rd!';

    GRANT PROCESS, BACKUP_ADMIN, RELOAD, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT, SELECT ON *.* TO 'tidb-dm'@'%';
    ```

4. Create sample data:

    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE hello;
    USE hello;

    CREATE TABLE hello_tidb (
        id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
        name VARCHAR(50)
    );

    INSERT INTO hello_tidb (name) VALUES ('Hello World');

    SELECT * FROM hello_tidb;
    ```

</div>

> <div label="macOS">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div label="macOS" value="macos">
```

> On macOS, you can quickly install and start MySQL 8.0 locally via [Homebrew](https://brew.sh).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On macOS, you can quickly install and start MySQL 8.0 locally using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh).
```

1. Update Homebrew and install MySQL 8.0:

    ```shell
    brew update
    brew install mysql@8.0
    ```

2. Make MySQL commands accessible in the system path:

    ```shell
    brew link mysql@8.0 --force
    ```

3. Start the MySQL service:

    ```shell
    brew services start mysql@8.0
    ```

4. Connect to MySQL as `root`:

    ```shell
    mysql -uroot
    ```

5. For DM testing purposes, create a dedicated user and grant privileges:

    ```sql
    CREATE USER 'tidb-dm'@'%'
        IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password
        BY 'MyPassw0rd!';

    GRANT PROCESS, BACKUP_ADMIN, RELOAD, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT, SELECT ON *.* TO 'tidb-dm'@'%';
    ```

6. Create sample data:

    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE hello;
    USE hello;
    
    CREATE TABLE hello_tidb (
        id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
        name VARCHAR(50)
    );
    
    INSERT INTO hello_tidb (name) VALUES ('Hello World');
    
    SELECT * FROM hello_tidb;
    ```

</div>

> <div label="CentOS">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div label="CentOS" value="centos">
```

    ```

2. Install MySQL:

    ```shell
    sudo yum install -y mysql-community-server --nogpgcheck
    ```

3. Start MySQL:

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl start mysqld
    ```

4. Find the temporary root password in the MySQL log:

    ```shell
    sudo grep 'temporary password' /var/log/mysqld.log
    ```

5. Connect to MySQL as `root` with the temporary password:

    ```shell
    mysql -uroot -p
    ```

6. Reset MySQL `root` password: 

    ```sql
    ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost'
        IDENTIFIED BY 'MyPassw0rd!';    
    ```

7. For DM testing purposes, create a dedicated user and grant privileges:

    ```sql
    CREATE USER 'tidb-dm'@'%'
        IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password
        BY 'MyPassw0rd!';

    GRANT PROCESS, BACKUP_ADMIN, RELOAD, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT, SELECT ON *.* TO 'tidb-dm'@'%';
    ```

8. Create sample data:

    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE hello;
    USE hello;
    
    CREATE TABLE hello_tidb (
        id INT AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
        name VARCHAR(50)
    );
    
    INSERT INTO hello_tidb (name) VALUES ('Hello World');
    
    SELECT * FROM hello_tidb;
    ```

</div>

> <div label="Ubuntu">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div label="Ubuntu" value="ubuntu">
```

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr 127.0.0.1:8261 start-task tiup-playground-task.yaml
    ```

## Step 5: Verify the data replication

Once the migration task is running, you can verify that the data replication is working as expected using the `dmctl` tool and by connecting to the target database to confirm that the data has been successfully replicated from the source MySQL database to the target TiDB cluster.

1. Verify TiDB DM tasks status with:

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr 127.0.0.1:8261 query-status
    ```

2. Connect to the TiDB target database to verify the replicated data:

    ```shell
    mysql -uroot -h127.0.0.1 -P4000 --prompt 'tidb> '
    ```

3. If you created the sample data in step 2, you will see the `hello_tidb` table replicated from the MySQL source database to the TiDB target database:

    ```sql
    SELECT * FROM hello.hello_tidb;
    ```

## Step 6: Clean up (optional)

1. In the terminal where the TiUP Playground is running, press `Ctrl + C` to terminate the process. This will stop all TiDB and DM components and delete the target environment.

2. If you created a source MySQL instance for testing in Step 2, stop and remove.

>     <SimpleTab>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <SimpleTab groupId="os">
```

>     <div label="Docker">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <div label="Docker" value="docker">
```

    To stop and remove the Docker container:

    ```shell
    docker stop mysql80
    docker rm mysql80
    ```

    </div>

>     <div label="macOS">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <div label="macOS" value="macos">
```

    If you installed MySQL 8.0 via Homebrew solely for testing, stop the service and uninstall with:

    ```shell
    brew services stop mysql@8.0
    brew uninstall mysql@8.0
    ```

    > **Note:** If you want to remove all MySQL data files, remove the MySQL data directory (commonly `/opt/homebrew/var/mysql`).

    </div>

>     <div label="CentOS">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <div label="CentOS" value="centos">
```

    If you installed MySQL 8.0 via the MySQL Yum repository, stop the service and uninstall with:

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl stop mysqld
    sudo yum remove -y mysql-community-server
    ```

    > **Note:** If you want to remove all MySQL data files, remove the MySQL data directory (commonly `/var/lib/mysql`).

    </div>

>     <div label="Ubuntu">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <div label="Ubuntu" value="ubuntu>
```

1. Create a DM task configuration file `tiup-playground-task.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    # Task
    name: tiup-playground-task
    task-mode: "all"              # Execute all phases - full data migration and incremental sync.

    # Source (MySQL)
    mysql-instances:
      - source-id: "mysql-01"

    ## Target (TiDB)
    target-database:
      host: "127.0.0.1"
      port: 4000
      user: "root"
      password: ""                # If the password is not empty, it is recommended to use a password encrypted with dmctl.
    ```

2. Start the task using the configuration file:

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr 127.0.0.1:8261 start-task tiup-playground-task.yaml
    ```

## Step 5: Verify the data replication

After starting the migration task, verify whether data replication is working as expected. Use the `dmctl` tool to check the task status, and connect to the target TiDB database to confirm that the data has been successfully replicated from the source MySQL database.

1. Check the status of the TiDB DM task:

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr 127.0.0.1:8261 query-status
    ```

2. Connect to the TiDB target database:

    ```shell

>     mysql -uroot -h127.0.0.1 -P4000 --prompt 'tidb> '

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    mysql --host 127.0.0.1 --port 4000 -u root --prompt 'tidb> '
```
- Use long-form flags `--host` and `--port` to improve readability and avoid confusion between similar flags like `-p` (password) and `-P` (port).
- The flag order matches the standard output from `tiup playground`, maintaining consistency throughout our documentation:

https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/cc9fd97598e114bdeb6d24d476eafba2792b22a7/dm/quick-start-with-dm.md?plain=1#L48-L50

Reviewer 2: @alastori FYI.

    ```

3. Verify the replicated data. If you have created the sample data in [Step 2](#step-2-prepare-a-source-database-optional), you will see the `hello_tidb` table replicated from the MySQL source database to the TiDB target database:

    ```sql
    SELECT * FROM hello.hello_tidb;
    ```

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion

    The output is as follows:

    ```sql
    +----+-------------+
    | id | name        |
    +----+-------------+
    |  1 | Hello World |
    +----+-------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

````

2. Stop and remove the source MySQL instance:

    If you have created a source MySQL instance for testing in [Step 2](#step-2-prepare-a-source-database-optional), stop and remove it by taking the following steps:

    <SimpleTab groupId="os">

    <div label="Docker" value="docker">

    To stop and remove the Docker container:

    ```shell
    docker stop mysql80
    docker rm mysql80
    ```

    </div>

    <div label="macOS" value="macos">

    If you installed MySQL 8.0 using Homebrew solely for testing, stop the service and uninstall it:

    ```shell
    brew services stop mysql@8.0
    brew uninstall mysql@8.0
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > If you want to remove all MySQL data files, delete the MySQL data directory (commonly located at `/opt/homebrew/var/mysql`).

    </div>

    <div label="CentOS" value="centos">

    If you installed MySQL 8.0 from the MySQL Yum repository, stop the service and uninstall it:

    ```shell
    sudo systemctl stop mysqld
    sudo yum remove -y mysql-community-server
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > If you want to remove all MySQL data files, delete the MySQL data directory (commonly located at `/var/lib/mysql`).

    </div>

>     <div label="Ubuntu" value="ubuntu>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <div label="Ubuntu" value="ubuntu">
```
